it's March and light returns to the High
Arctic sweeping away four months of
darkness
[Music]
a polar bear stirs she has been in her
den the whole winter emergence marks the
beginning of spring
after months of confinement underground
she toboggans down the slope perhaps to
clean her fur
perhaps for sheer joy
[Music]
her Cubs gaze out of their bright new
world for the very first time the female
calls them but this steep slope is not
the easiest place to take your first
steps
[Music]
but they are hungry and eager to reach
their mother whose delayed feeding them
on this special day
now she lures them with the promise of
milk the only food the Cubs have known
since they were born deaf and blind
beneath the snow some two months ago
[Music]
their mother is not eaten for five
months and has lost half her body weight
now she converts the last of her fat
reserves into milk for her cubs
[Music]
[Applause]
the spring Sun brings warmth but also a
problem for the mother it starts to melt
the Cirrus that is where she hunts for
the seals she needs to feed her cubs and
she must get there before the ice breaks
up
[Music]
for now though it's still minus 30
degrees and the Cubs must have the
shelter of the den
[Music]